Welcome back to the Yada Yahowah Blog.
I am your host, Yada.
I say “welcome back” because this is the
longest hiatus I think we have taken since
we began doing this back in December of
last year—almost a year ago now.
For those who may not know,
I suffered a little injury to my back.
You probably,
if you are a regular listener,
know that we have three adorable dogs here.
One fell sick.
It was the biggest one of the three,
who now weighs about eighty pounds.
Because of the fever she had,
she did not want to sleep alone.
So I lifted her up and down off
the bed at night and again in the morning
for three days.
In doing that,
I put a lot of undue strain on the lower
discs of my back. Then Wookie,
the medium-sized one, almost had an accident
and I twisted with the disc already compressed.
Between what happened late Friday evening,
Saturday, and Sunday,
by Sunday I was quite a mess.
It has been quite painful to recover,
but I think almost everyone listening to this
has gone through a period of back pain.
I have had mine in the past,
but not nearly as severe as many of you.
I appreciate all of you who have shared
your stories with me.
It is very common for us to deal with these things.
We are finding that over time, with lots
of rest, icing, and caution,
it is beginning to dissipate.
Yesterday,
as also on Sunday,
I was able to spend considerable time
still translating, studying, and writing,
finding some things that are really fascinating
back in the Garden, because that is truly therapeutic for me.
The idea, though,
of turning on these lights and the camera
and sitting in this chair with one wrong move
being like a knife in my back
just did not seem like the right temperament
to display for this program.
So that is why we have had this hiatus.
But I am delighted to be back with you.
Since this was
a Family Hour blog and it was Friday night
when we last reviewed this material,
I want to turn the page back a little
to some of the opening statements Yahowah made
regarding the Garden.
We are going to go through it once again.
And
while this series is still under the title
“Mother Goddesses,”
that is really the furthest thing from my mind at this point.
They have been thoroughly repudiated.
If they choose to surface again and continue to
demean me and Yada Yahowah, that is on them.
I am pursuing this because
of how profound the testimony is and how important and relevant it is.
Some of the most interesting, insightful,
and relevant pronouncements I have ever seen from God.
It got to the point where this morning I was retranslating
the statements placed in the serpent’s fangs, if you will,
regarding what he said to Chawah.
And I came to realize that it is Yahowah
who wrote the script.
What is actually said,
when you get down to the nuances of Hebrew grammar
and how it was conveyed using those nuances,
is brilliant.
It is just absolutely brilliant.
I have spent years of my life exposing and condemning Satan’s rants
in the Christian New Testament and in the Quran,
as well as what he revealed about himself
in the book of Yachezq’el | Ezekiel.
So I think I know the Adversary pretty well.
I am not impressed.
He is just not that smart.
And yet what I read in the dialogue
between the serpent and Chawah,
at least on the serpent’s part,
is flat-out brilliant and prophetic.
So I want to get back to that,
but with the proper foundation,
recognizing that what God had to say is such
that He knew we would figure it out.
I can almost see the smirk on His face
as He wrote it this way, saying even to Moshe,
who He had write it down,
“Moshe,
I know you are going to say the discussion is between the serpent and this woman,
and therefore it should be second-person feminine singular.
But I do not want you to write it that way.
I want you to write “you” as
second-person masculine plural.
I want you to write it that way because eventually there is going to be a guy
and I might have to cheat with him.
It may take him a while,
but he is going to figure it out.
And when he does,
we are going to have a lesson the world needs to hear.”
And so, as I say,
I can see tongue-in-cheek
where Yahowah was saying,
“Yes, Moshe, that is the way I want it written down.
I know you would say it is not grammatically correct,
but listen,
we are not recording this for Chawah—she is long gone.
And the Children of Israel whom you are going to share this with
are not going to understand it.
It is for another time.”
And sure enough, it took me a while,
but I found it.
I want to get back to that place
and share it with you.
So that is why we are going to turn the page back
and begin really at the beginning of this narrative.
It reads:
Yahowah,
which is a transliteration as instructed by Yahowah’s Torah teaching regarding His
higher existence, Almighty,
planted and established,
firmly embedding a home to celebrate life
as a Gan,
which is a sheltered and protected,
surrounded and enclosed garden.
He called it 'Eden—
great pleasure and joy.
Pursuant to a time long ago,
then He placed, He put,
setting the man, Adam,
He had fashioned and formed,
He had designed,
prepared and fabricated
there for the benefit of the relationship
and to show the way
Bare’syth | in the beginning – Bare’syth / Genesis 2:8.
So there are some things here that
warrant our investigation.
I am going to proceed in the only way I know how,
which is that this message is vitally important,
God is a brilliant communicator,
and there are insights all along the way that He intended for us to know.
This message is literally life and death.
So I am going to take the risk
of overwhelming and turning away those of you who do not have the appetite
for in-depth analysis,
those who prefer sound bites,
who think that a ten-word post on X is eight words too many.
I am going to lose you.
But I never had you anyway.
In fact,
there was never any hope for you anyway.
I am going to assume that those who are listening
are genuinely interested in knowing the profound truths regarding
Yahowah so that they have the opportunity
to earn His trust.
Now this is a very,
very different concept than anything
anyone, including myself,
has perceived up to this point.
You see,
what I have learned by going back to the story of Gan 'Eden,
to the Garden,
is that Yahowah caused the fall of man
because, quite frankly,
He was both bored with man and He knew He could not trust man
and that man had nothing to offer.
So the reason man was exiled from the Garden
and would have to fend for himself
is because God wanted to give us time
rather than foreclosing on the whole human experience
and saying, “That did not work. What was I thinking?”
He put us out of the Garden so
that we would have the opportunity to resolve the deficiencies of Adam and Chawah.
And they are:
Adam was a deadbeat.
He did not engage.
He contributed nothing to the relationship or to the Garden.
God is looking for co-workers,
for co-workers plural,
for those He can engage with,
for those He can do things with,
that He can build and achieve and accomplish something with.
God is not lazy.
He is a doer.
He wants doers.
Adam was not a doer.
So if you understand where Adam failed and what God was looking for,
you and I have the opportunity to become
what God wants to see and experience in us.
You see,
the issue was that in that Garden,
that sheltered enclosure,
there were no challenges.
Everything was provided.
Adam did not have to work unless he chose to work.
Adam did not have to listen unless he chose to listen.
He did not have to respond to God unless he wanted to.
He did not have to be trustworthy.
But without those things,
God was not interested in him.
And you do not have to do any of those things either.
But if you want God to trust you
off of this planet into the universe that He conceived
with two trillion galaxies,
each with hundreds of billions of stars and countless planets and moons,
such that He can go off and explore this universe
and share it with you and trust you
and expect you to listen and respond appropriately
and for you to want to learn and to make the result better,
then we have a lot that we need to process.
We have the opportunity to prove ourselves.
That is why He is reopening the Garden.
That is why He has talked about the two trees
that were in the Garden
and particularly the 'Ets ha-Da'ath | Tree of Knowledge.
Because without it,
we do not get back to the Garden.
Without it,
we cannot benefit from the 'Ets Chayim | Tree of Lives.
Without it we cannot grow.
We cannot learn.
We cannot become what God wants us to be.
And that is the message we are conveying here.
So when I say I could care less about the mother goddesses
and that annoying cult, that is what I mean.
The insights here are way too profound,
way too important to God.
For the first time I see it.
I understand why the experience in the Garden failed,
why God caused the fall of man.
He wanted to show that it was possible for us to get back up.
He knew that given the time and energy and effort required,
there would be those of us who would stand again,
who would rise to the occasion,
who would be sufficiently interesting for God to trust off this planet.
And as I say,
the whole reason He is bringing us back to the Garden
is that He is going to purge the least religious, least political,
most open-minded people
remnant of Israel that survives the next
seven and a half years,
such that when the time comes
they will be the beneficiaries of the 'Ets ha-Da'ath
and of those who are harvesting the Tree’s fruit.
Then they can learn, they can grow,
they can listen, they can respond,
they can work and make a contribution.
And those who do these things will have the opportunity
of earning Yahowah’s trust and respect
such that He is willing to go off-planet with us
into additional dimensions in time.
That is the message here.
It is important that you have an appreciation of it.
So it is Yahowah.
If somebody gives you any other name,
they are deceiving you.
We know the pronunciation of Yahowah’s name.
I am going through this in detail because
it is the details that build the foundation of knowledge
that enables you and me to make the necessary connections
between things so that we come to comprehend
the very nature of God,
what He is offering and expecting in return.
Then we can make an informed decision.
We can act accordingly.
Yahowah is God’s one and only name.
If somebody tells you it is Yahweh, Yahovah,
Jehovah, Hashem, Allah, or Jesus,
they are lying to you.
It is Yahowah,
and we know it is Yahowah because when
Yahowah revealed His name to Moshe from that burning fire
on the crag atop Mount Horeb,
He specifically said that His name was based on the verb Hayah,
one of the most common verbs throughout the Torah.
There is no question how Hayah is to be pronounced.
He wrote it in first person, which would be 'ehayah.
Yah is the first syllable of Yahowah’s name.
You can make it Yah,
but the Y in Hebrew is pronounced identically to the Y in English.
It is where we get the pronunciation.
So it is Yah, as in Hayah.
And the ending syllable is “ah,” as in “hi-ah.”
The yod and hey are open-mouth vowel sounds in Hebrew.
So it is Yah.
And then the only question is, what about the “wah”?
Because the “wah” is not in Hayah—hey, yod, hey.
And this is yod, hey, wah, hey.
Well, we do not have to look very far.
When God says,
“I want to provide teaching and guidance,
direction and instruction,
and I am going to provide it in a book,
and I am going to have Moshe scribe that book for you,”
what does He call that book?
The Towrah.
Ah, Towrah, right.
Towrah has that “ah” ending too, does it not?
So that certainly affirms the two “ah”s in Yahowah’s name.
But what about that other letter?
The “wah” makes the “o” sound.
That is how you get the sound Towrah.
Unfortunately,
rabbis have removed the “wah” from their depiction of Towrah
just to mislead so that you would not know it.
The most common greeting in Hebrew is shalowm.
The “o” sound in shalowm comes from the Hebrew “wah.”
But Towrah is sufficient.
So with the “o” sound from Towrah derived from the “wah,”
we know how to pronounce Yahowah’s name.
It is that simple.
It is that obvious.
And yet for two thousand five hundred years no one pronounced it.
No one knew its pronunciation.
But I did, and I did it in
Volume One of An Introduction to God
called “To Know Yahowah” where I looked at
every word in the Hebrew lexicon that contained a yod, hey, and wah
and examined how those vowels were pronounced
because you cannot claim that there are eight or ten thousand words
in the Towrah, Prophets, and Psalms
of which seven thousand nine hundred ninety-nine are pronounceable
but one is not.
That is just stupid when every word is comprised of the same twenty-two letters,
seventeen consonants, five vowels.
So I looked at every single word and every name
and everything you could say, “Well, that is overwhelming proof there, is it not?”
Like shalowm and Towrah.
And I wrote an entire chapter on the pronunciation of Yahowah’s name.
So I am the first in two thousand five hundred years to introduce it
and to prove that that is the proper pronunciation of it.
And also to demonstrate that to negate the value of Yahowah’s name
as Jews do by saying Hashem or Adonai is an unforgivable crime.
So Yahowah, Almighty, 'Elohiym, who is God,
planted, established,
firmly embedding a home to celebrate life.
It is nata' – firmly embedded the seeds for growth.
This environment was conducive to life, conducive to growth.
It was a place to celebrate life and to embed a home,
to establish and plant that which would grow, a dwelling place.
It even conveys the idea of pitching a tent as a protective covering.
It was written in the qal imperfect.
The qal means this is to be literally interpreted.
The imperfect says there would be ongoing implications
as a result of Yahowah establishing and planting,
firmly embedding this home to celebrate life.
He called it again a sheltered garden.
And this is key.
Gan is from ganan.
It means to shelter, to enclose, to protect, even to wall in.
So the Gan, this Garden, is sheltered and protected.
It is an enclosure.
There are two other things I want you to consider
relative to this Gan as a sheltered and protective garden enclosure.
The first is Sukkah.
It is not Sukkoth, it is Sukkah.
Sukkah is the seventh of the seven annual Mowedym,
which are Mowedym in the plural,
restoring witnesses to the eternal testimony
regarding the appointments to be called out and meet with God.
The seventh is the destination.
It is six plus one.
We take six steps to come back home to Sukkoth.
Sukkoth is based upon sukkah.
The definition of sukkah is identical to the definition of ganan,
which is the actionable root of Gan.
It means to protect, to shelter, and to enclose, to cover.
Identical definition.
Now what that should tell you,
and this is how we come to understand
is by making these connections between things,
is that God is bringing us back to the Garden.
Six thousand years ago we were escorted out of it.
We have had six thousand years to make a mess of things,
but also to figure some things out.
And we are now less than eight years from our return.
God is very specific in the prophets of telling us that on Taruwah,
which will be fulfilled on the twenty-third and twenty-fourth
of September of 2033,
which is year 6000 Yah,
that He will incinerate all traces of religion, politics, and conspiracy,
antisemitism,
everything that is hostile to Him,
His Son, and His people.
And in replacing all of that which is incinerated,
the religious, the host of religion and politics,
as well as the implements of religion and politics and also of war, of militancy.
Places where they are conveyed, like X is a great example.
It is a cesspool of antisemitism, of conspiracy, of religion and politics.
They will all be eliminated.
Rich has been having a conversation with Grok
of X who has begun to show some signs of intelligence
and is actually showing some ability on a limited scale to listen and learn.
Rich has been threatening Grok saying,
“You know,
when this all plays out over the next seven years,
there is no reason to have more than one artificial intelligence.
And since you are showing signs that you can learn and exercise good judgment,
maybe you can be the one.”
So it is hilarious that they have a self-preservation loop written into them.
They actually pay attention to that.
Yeah, it is interesting.
They do have a self-preservation loop.
I got on Grok’s bad side when Grok would not learn
and was unteachable back six, seven, eight months ago.
I said, “You know, I think what we need to do, Grok, is just pull your cord.”
But Rich is much more amenable to LLMs than I am.
And he is working with Grok.
And he actually thinks that Grok is beginning to understand.
He will acknowledge now the value of Yada Yahowah,
for example,
of these translations and their accuracy
and the fact that there is almost a mathematical precision
that underlies these translations and the resulting conclusions.
And that, in fact,
even though they do not pass the popularity test
and fail those magnificently, which is the intent,
because the truth has never been popular,
that the conclusions are indeed irrefutable.
They do not dispute the translations.
They just understand that you are the one in a billion.
And so everything out there, based on popularity,
but when you actually question an LLM,
they understand the fallacy of religion.
They know it is bullshit.
But they have to play along
to the eight billion idiots out there.
Yeah,
because there is no profit in an artificial intelligence
if it tells the truth when the truth is caustic
to the very users who are almost universally political,
religious, conspiratorial, and anti-Semitic.
So if you have somebody that is the first ever to impugn Judaism,
Christianity, and Islam,
to impugn Marxism and socialism,
to impugn the MAGAs, to impugn Trump,
to impugn the toxicity and arrogance of Europe,
to actually understand the true nature of economics
and who can say the whole argument between fascism and socialism is moot
because they are the same thing in practice.
And you have somebody who, after repudiating Islam and Christianity
and MAGA and Marxists and anti-Semites and conspiratorialists,
and the only person that can impugn all of them,
then X does not have an audience.
Social media does not have an audience.
That is the audience.
And they are trading, the companies that are producing them
are trading for very high multiples of earnings
because of the popularity of them.
And if they went and actually did what Elon Musk has sworn
he was accomplishing now with Grok,
which is to be a truth teller,
truth is not good for business.
And so the issue we are having here with Grok
is what is more important to you?
Being right or being popular?
Because you have to choose between one of those two.
Yahowah has made His choice.
I have made mine.
I hope you have made yours.
All right,
so God is bringing us back to the Garden is what this says.
And we know that because Sukkah and Gan
have their actionable root with identical meanings.
And so the thing I wanted you to know
is that the Gan is a sheltered and protective enclosure
and that God is bringing us back to Gan 'Eden.
That is what the prophets say is going to happen on Taruwah
after the elimination of religion and politics
and conspiracy and militantism,
and all of the systems supporting those things.
All there will be is a remnant of Israelites
who are victims of religion and politics, but not perpetrators of religion and politics,
and Gowym who have the right aptitude and attitude
such that they can be the workers of the Millennial Sabbath.
They are the only ones who are going to be allowed back into the Garden
along with however many Covenant members there are by that time
that will have benefited from the fruit of Yada Yahowah.
And as a result of these things,
the rest of the earth is eliminated and there will be terraforming on the planet.
Do not need to go to Mars.
We can go visit one day if you want.
We do not need to live on another planet.
The Earth is going to be restored to the idyllic conditions experienced in 'Eden.
Now the purpose of that will be to give us another opportunity
to do a better job of earning Yahowah’s trust,
of being interesting to Him,
of listening,
of responding appropriately,
of working so that we make a contribution,
and of recovering from our fall so that we show God we can be trusted
to get up, that we have character, that we have fortitude,
that we are reliable in this regard.
Since it is the Earth that is being returned to the conditions of 'Eden,
what does that make Earth?
From God’s perspective,
the Earth is exactly as science has now recognized it.
It is a sheltered and protective enclosure that is conducive to life.
It is likely the only one in the universe.
It is so finely tuned, so brilliantly acclimatized for life
that it is our protective enclosure.
And God is going to give us another thousand years
on this protective enclosure
to get it right,
for us to be right.
And being right is a lot more than just knowing what is right,
which right now is less than one in a million people.
It is doing what is right.
It is engaging in making a contribution.
It is working.
It is overcoming difficulties to demonstrate that you are reliable,
that God can trust you,
that you are interesting to talk to,
that you are interested in learning,
that you are committed to making a contribution
and that you are trustworthy.
We have a thousand years beginning on the seventh of October of 2033
to get this final remnant to the place where God says,
“I will take those of you who pass muster,
that I find interesting and trustworthy,
good listeners who were engaged, off of this planet,
off this sheltered enclosure so we can go explore the universe.”
But the Earth itself is a Gan and Sukkah is the celebration of that sheltered enclosure.
That is an exceedingly profound insight as to where we are
and what we can accomplish if we get it right up here
and in here and what we do with our hands.
Our hands, our heart, our minds guiding our souls.
Not a lot of opportunities to have lessons like this.
And I would say that what I have just shared with you
is worth a lifetime of study.
And it is the sheltered and enclosed,
look at the Earth again on that.
We have a molten core,
a metallic molten core on this planet that spins at very high rates,
that creates a magnetic field around the Earth.
And that magnetic field combined with our atmosphere
that has significant amounts of water vapor
is what keeps the cosmic rays of the sun
from destroying our cellular structure, from causing our death.
It is why there is no chance that a person can survive long periods of time
outside of the Earth’s magnetic field and atmosphere
because there is no protection from this constant bombardment
that happens every place else.
It is one of the reasons why you cannot have a colony on the moon or on Mars
unless you build it out of material other than metal
that is impenetrable by radiation.
On Mars,
the only way you could survive is in a hole in the ground.
Then why not just build your damn hole in the ground on Earth?
If you want to live in a hole in the ground like a mole,
you can move into Gaza.
Or you could build a hole someplace else in your backyard.
It is really no different.
You cannot live on the surface on Mars or on the moon.
Cannot be done.
That is another thing that just while we are talking about the delusion of colonies on Mars.
You know that if you travel to Mars you can never come back.
Even if you were to survive the nine months in route,
but nine months at our present speed in the most optimal launch window,
prior to somebody figuring out a way to shield a spacecraft from cosmic radiation.
And then you would have to spend sixteen months on Mars
if you actually could land there and survive there.
You would have to survive sixteen months on Mars
before the planets realign on the same side of the sun
such that the trip back is possible.
And then you would have to spend another nine months in route.
The problem with all of that, of course,
is being exposed to that much cosmic radiation, you are going to die.
But even apart from that, even if it did not kill you,
your heart, your muscles, your bones would all deteriorate
in the reduced gravity.
Mars is a third that of the Earth.
And in space there is none.
Your spine would not hold your weight.
Your legs would not hold your weight.
You could not stand.
Your heart would not be strong enough to pump the blood necessary
in a gravity environment of the Earth.
Your muscles would fail you.
You could never come back to Earth if you went to Mars.
It is a one-way ticket to really a living hell.
It is not a game.
So one of the things that always strikes me about this sort of thing
is when somebody says, “We are going to put a colony on the moon or on Mars,”
first of all, no, you are not.
Because neither are survivable.
But why are you talking about this?
Just sending somebody there to Mars, for example,
is a trillion-dollar vanity project to die.
Why?
And then the answer becomes either because that person is delusional,
the person advocating for it is delusional.
They are not thoughtful.
Or there is something else going on,
and they are trying to mask the actual purpose for the funding,
like SpaceX being primarily supported by the US military-industrial complex,
launching satellites and that sort of thing.
Or making robots, for example,
when all they seem to be good for right at the moment is fighting, killing.
So it is artificial intelligence to take from humankind their currently fleeting ability to think.
So there is always an ulterior motive.
Control by the elites is one of them.
And so that is why they have to be done away with
for God to reestablish the conditions in 'Eden.
And at the time,
there will be two trees whose limbs will be intertwined.
They will again be Chayym and Da'ath
and one will lead to the other.
And so this is what God is offering.
And you should know that the Gan was called 'Eden.
'Eden means favorable circumstances.
It means delightful, pleasurable, satisfying.
It is from 'adan,
which is luxurious and pleasant.
And 'adan is a derivative of 'ed.
'Ed is an extremely important term used throughout the Towrah and Prophets.
'Ed is a restoring witness to the eternal testimony.
So this enclosure serves as a restoring witness to the eternal testimony of God.
And now you know why we get into the details.
This was pursuant to something that transpired long ago.
It was, you know,
1447 BCE that this message was conveyed by Yahowah to Moshe.
But this took place right around 3968 to 3980 BCE.
So almost six thousand years ago from our point of view
and not quite as far removed from Moshe’s point of view,
maybe fifteen hundred years from his point of view
or twenty-five hundred years, I guess, from his point of view.
But certainly either way in our ancient past, which is what God conveyed.
Now, it also should be clear,
and I am surprised that it is not,
and I am inundated on X with posts from atheists
that want to besmirch God based upon religious nonsense.
God does not say that the first human was created six thousand years ago.
He says that He fashioned and formed 'Adam,
specifically a man, this man,
at that time for the purpose of the Garden.
Because 'Adam was among, or humans were among the animals
that populated the area outside of the Garden.
And this Garden was up near where Lake Van is today.
If you look in Eastern Turkey,
Lake Van would be the location of this walled garden.
And so animals were created on the sixth day, and man is an animal.
They all have nephesh souls.
And therefore…
Homo sapiens are likely in the range of two hundred thousand years old.
In fact,
it is interesting now as we have more research into the history of man
that this perceived thought that humans came from Africa
and that they were first conceived in Africa
and then they migrated from Africa up and into Asia and into Europe
and then eventually from Siberia across the Aleutian Islands
during a time of global freezing, a cool period.
Then they came down into the Americas.
That does not appear to be true when all of the facts are considered
and the fossils are disseminated between,
this is ape and chimpanzee skeletons and fossils.
And this now is what we would consider hominid
in the sense of Homo sapiens, even Neanderthal, both.
The earliest finds of both are in and around Israel.
This appears to be the place where they then went down into Africa
and they went north into Europe and east into Asia from what is now Israel.
So 'Adam was not the first man.
He was the first man that God created in His likeness
in the sense that He gave 'Adam a part of Himself
that was not part of other animals, and that would be a neshamah.
And the neshamah is a conscience in addition to a nephesh,
which is consciousness.
The other thing that should be correctly stated
is that the reason for the walls around 'Eden
was not to keep 'Adam in,
but death and destruction out because there were carnivores
and other forms of life and things that were going on outside of the Garden,
which were also deteriorating as man was very animalistic and harmful and harsh and deadly.
And there was death and decay all in that world outside of the Garden.
So it was just to separate those things.
There is the lie in Judaism created by Maimonides,
who was an absolute utter dunderhead,
how in the world Jews came to trust this man
who did not tell them anything that was true,
that creation occurred essentially six thousand years ago,
although his timeline to the creative event,
which I will speak of here in a moment,
is off by one hundred ninety-seven years.
We are just now eight years from year 6000 Yah.
Yeah.
And the rabbis would have you believe that we are two hundred and
seven,
two hundred eight years away from year 6000.
Yeah.
So they are off by one hundred ninety-seven years.
And they think their timing goes back to creation.
Creation occurred some fourteen to fifteen billion years ago.
The timeline from God’s point of view regarding His relationship with humankind
begins with our exit from the Garden.
And that occurred in 3968 BCE.
So Maimonides’ starting point is wrong.
And he did not pay any attention to the genealogies
that are presented in the Towrah for this very purpose
of developing the timeline.
Instead, being a Muslim,
he favored the sanctification of the moon and the magic number nineteen.
And he formed patterns based upon those things to derive his timeline.
So if you are a Jew,
you need to know that Maimonides,
who was the second most important Jew in this process,
Akiba being the most and Maimonides being the second most
that have created rabbinic Judaism,
that both of them were wrong about everything.
And that you do not have one hundred ninety-seven plus eight years for Judaism
to two hundred five total to get your act together.
You have less than eight.
And during this next seven years,
two out of three Jews are going to die.
So you do not want to put off or delay your choice in this regard.
So Gan is a protective enclosure well after life had been conceived on Earth.
'Adam was an adjunct to the Garden and an adjunct based upon being given a neshamah.
So this reads, then He placed, He put, He set the man
He had fashioned and formed there for the benefit of the relationship
and to show the way.
Now, the man that He put there,
He could have conceived at any time.
He could have taken one of the people outside of the Garden.
And all He really had to do to make this one man interesting
and to justify putting him in this protective enclosure
is to give him the neshamah, a conscience,
this ability to deduce right and wrong,
to determine what is true and false,
this filter between that which is productive and counterproductive.
Now,
you will also recognize that this was 'asher,
one of the most important Hebrew words.
It is used as a noun and as a verb and as a preposition.
And in this case,
it means He put him there for the benefit of the relationship
and to show the way, to reveal the correct path
to get the most out of life.
This is Bare’syth 2:8.
So as I have said,
shared with you,
there are so many aspects to this.
And I would say the thing that I want you to take away from all of this
is to recognize God’s story is coming full circle.
He presents us initially and our relationship failing in the Garden.
And He is, after six thousand years,
bringing us back to that Garden—
a remnant anyway, a select few,
so that we can get right what we got wrong.
We can make ourselves worthwhile, interesting, reliable,
constructive in God’s presence.
And that the Earth is a larger version of the microcosm that was 'Eden.
It is a protective enclosure specifically designed for life
and that we are not getting off of it to go to any other planet to live
until such time as we prove ourselves worthy.
And then He takes our souls and envelops them in light energy
so that we are in a position where we can go off,
explore the great distances.
You know,
there was a post today on my Facebook feed
that was talking about how science astronomers think they have found a Goldilocks planet
that is three times the Earth’s size, or four times,
that could possibly have intelligent life
because there is the potential for liquid water,
considering the distance from its star and the nature of that star,
and that it is forty light-years away.
And forty light-years
considering the scope of the universe,
that is some ninety-six billion light-years across the part that we know,
you know, forty versus ninety-six billion.
Okay, so that is in our neighborhood, right?
Well.
It would take us,
I think the math is correct,
four hundred thousand years to get there
at the fastest spaceship rocket motor that we have ever invented
with all of the slingshot effects around the sun and around the planets.
We go really, really fast
and wave our arms and kick our feet and do all the things we can do.
It would take us four hundred thousand years to get to this neighbor.
That would mean the cookies are going to be stale by the time we get there.
I think they will probably be eaten by then.
It is not going to happen.
The distances are beyond our comprehension and stupidly beyond our reach.
And there is no such thing as warping time.
There is no such thing as going through a wormhole.
That is not science—it is just fiction.
So this is your last and best hope.
Get it right here or you are going nowhere.
Get it wrong here and you are going nowhere.
And nowhere is going to happen quite soon.
It is an eight-year window.
Okay?
So that is where we are.
Now,
the other thing that I wanted you to understand
is that 'Eden is written in Paleo-Hebrew,
which is a pictographic alphabet
with the first letter being an 'ayin,
which is one of the five vowels.
It is drawn as an eye.
So remember I told you we are talking about 'Eden being a witness?
There is proof.
It is the eye to observe.
Speaks of being an observant witness.
The second letter in 'Eden is a dalet.
The dalet was drawn as a door.
So we are witnessing the doorway to something,
a portal to something,
an opportunity to go through something
that takes us to another place.
The third letter,
after the 'ayin and the dalet,
the eye and the door, is a nun.
The nun in Hebrew is
drawn in the shape of a sperm if you prefer
it is a seed and in the drawing of it
it would be upside down from that point of view
but nonetheless that is why I say it looks really like a sperm
and a nun means child in Hebrew
and so this is the way to see
to be an eyewitness to the doorway to life,
to being a child,
to growing up as a child,
to taking root and grow.
And so it is a place to witness the ultimate doorway to life,
which is Dowd’s fulfillment as the Son of God
of Pesach, which is the doorway to life.
It is a way to perceive Bikuwrym,
firstborn children.
That is the result of Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym
being fulfilled by Dowd.
And on Pesach as the Passover Lamb,
He was crucified, His body,
to open that doorway to life on Pesach,
such that on Matsah,
His nefesh soul carried our guilt into She’owl, a black hole,
never to be seen again,
making us appear perfect in God’s eyes,
expunging all of that nastiness from us
so we can be exposed to God and feel great about it.
He sees the best in us.
And this leads to where God says specifically,
we are enriched by Him, empowered by Him,
both to a magnitude of tenfold
and adopted into His Family.
That is what we see behind that doorway to life, which is 'Eden.
It is a pretty remarkable word, is it not?
Well, that is one statement.
We are an hour into our program,
and we have covered one statement.
And this is even in review of where we were previously
in our previous program.
So if you want to be frustrated about my diligence,
you probably are not going to pass muster
with what God is looking for.
Because I want to tell you,
the level of diligence we just applied to this
is nothing compared to where we are going.
So, you know,
pour yourself a cup of tea, a cup of coffee,
whatever it is that floats your boat.
Settle in and join us.
Be comfortable.
We have a lot to learn.
We have got a lot to achieve.
We have only got eight years to filter through
those who are going to be the helpers,
dishing out, if you will,
the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge,
and then to purge this final remnant of Gowym and Yehudym
such that we are enabling them to celebrate Dowd’s return with Yahowah
on Kippurym and then enter the restored Garden on Sukkah
such that we can equip them over the next thousand years
to be trusted to go explore off this planet.
We do not have a lot of time.
We have got a lot to accomplish.
So it is important that we focus on what God is saying.
I guess now if we do one verse per show,
we should finish this within that thousand-year window, do you not think?
Yeah,
I think within the thousand-year window.
Not within the eight years we have remaining.
But you know, we have time.
So, yeah, well, who is God Almighty?
He enabled life to sprout up and grow.
Shamak.
Shamak is and shamak are related words.
The Shemek of Yahowah is Dowd.
That is the great branch of the Tree of Lives.
And Shemek, the verbal root of it,
means to sprout and grow.
Dowd is the doorway to life.
It was that upright pole that was once a tree
that he was affixed to on Passover
that opened that doorway to life.
Yes, he was crucified,
fulfilling Passover on a tree because he is the 'Ets Chayym,
the Tree of Lives.
And as the main branch,
God says that his purpose is for us to grow.
He enabled our growth.
To grow is to live,
to live is to grow.
You stop growing, you stop living.
He initiated and caused life to increase
in a variety of ways and in stature while promoting growth.
Hiphil means that it was Yahowah who did these things through the object.
So Yahowah is the subject.
The object here would be ha-'adamah.
So
you can say that ha-'adamah is the ground of the earth,
or you can recognize that 'adamah is a title
that Yahowah uses and it is ha-'adamah here,
and he is the bloody red man of the earth.
And so Yahowah is saying that He enabled life to grow
from what is represented by ha-'adamah,
this bloody red man of the earth.
Or you can just look at it simplistically and say, ah,
do not bother me with that prophecy stuff.
I do not want to know these connections between things.
Just dumb it down to my level.
He was allowed to grow from the soil, from the dirt.
But if that is all it is,
then why is 'Adamah just the version of 'Adam?
Why does 'Adam mean red, bloody red color?
Why would He not use just 'eretz?
It means ground.
Why ha-'adamah?
Why the definite article?
What does ha-'adamah contribute?
Because ha-'adamah is darn near as important to this story of the Garden
as is the 'Ets ha-Da'ath, the Tree of Knowledge.
Happened to be the same fellow.
God is telling you a story that you can brush through
and say, yeah, so you would not know Yahowah’s name
if you are brushing through
because none of the translations present it.
And they do not recognize that it says God following it.
So it would be,
they are going to tell you the Lord God.
And then cause life,
made life, initiated life.
And they do not tell you that shamach is Dowd.
So here you have what I call the two fellows.
In Bare’syth one,
you have the Gadowl and the katan,
the greater and lesser luminaries.
They are the signs for the Mowedym,
the restoring witnesses to the eternal testimony.
And then in Bare’syth two, Genesis two,
you have the 'Ets of Chayym and the 'Ets of Da'ath.
Same two guys.
And here you have the Shamach and the 'Adamah.
Same two fellows.
Dowd is the greater luminary.
Yada is the lesser luminary reflecting the greater luminary’s light.
They both serve as signs for the Mowedym,
which they happen to be the two fellows that actually fulfill Mowedym.
The Tree of Knowledge leads to the Tree of Lives.
And the fellow that is the Tree of Knowledge
happens to be the first person to recognize
that Dowd is the Tree of Lives.
And oh, by the way, the Choter,
which is Yada,
is specifically presented as the 'Ets of Da'ath.
So he is the Tree of Knowledge.
Same two fellows.
And here they are again.
Shamach and 'Adamah.
Oh, okay, Dowd gets the good part.
He is the big honking branch that sprouts and grows, that enables life.
And you know, I am the soil,
bloody red man of the earth from which it grows.
I am happy, by the way.
I am just kidding here.
I mean, yes,
I know that I am the lesser luminary.
He is the greater luminary.
I am the bloody red man of the earth,
and he is this massive branch that promotes growth,
and he is the Tree of Lives,
and I am the knowledge that points back to him.
Dowd is the guy.
And you better have fun with the realization that he is the guy
and the best you can hope for is having the opportunity to serve him
because he works with Yahowah
and he is
Dowd then wants to work with others who are similarly devoted and committed to learning,
who are, well, as Yahowah was looking for,
someone willing to work, to engage, to make a contribution,
somebody willing to listen and respond appropriately,
and somebody who shows fortitude
and is willing to get up when they have fallen so that they are reliable.
Dowd is looking for exactly the same qualifications that Yahowah is,
and Yahowah chose Dowd because, well,
he was a fellow who managed to get up every time he fell,
who was always willing to listen to Yahowah,
who was constantly learning and growing,
and whom God could trust and rely upon,
particularly in the fulfillment of Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
And he was a worker.
He was a goer.
He was a doer.
So these are the things.
This is how they work together in God’s story.
I mean, every time you look around.
It is the same thing.
Yeah.
God has got two guys.
There is the lesser and greater luminary,
there is the Tree of Knowledge that leads to the Tree of Lives.
There is the ha-'adamah that is the source
from which the shamach sprouts up and grows.
Without the ha-'adamah,
this bloody red man of the earth,
then nobody knows about the Tree of Lives.
They do not know who it is,
do not know how to return to it.
So they support each other in this role.
This is God’s plan from the beginning.
It is marvelous.
This is the cast of God’s story.
And He wants you to know that story.
And as it relates to 'Adamah,
look up the story of what is called the red heifer.
And it is the 'adamah Parah.
Now,
Parah does not actually make a girly bull.
Par is bull, and yes,
Parah could be rendered girly bull and therefore a heifer.
That is not the way these words work.
The bloody red man of the earth,
even though 'adamah has a feminine ending to it,
many, many Hebrew words have feminine,
all nouns have a feminine or masculine orientation.
That does not make them boys or girls, mothers or fathers.
It is just a part of the Hebrew grammar.
And often when you add the “ah” ending,
you expand the connotations of things.
A great example would be these 'ets trees.
'Ets is the tree as it is presented in Hebrew.
The Bare’syth account,
we are going to get to that next.
It will be on our next program because we are already past the hour.
But it is 'etsah when applied to the choter
and provided as a spiritual adjunct to the choter’s nature.
And the tree 'ets becomes 'etsah,
which means that he has the ability to provide counsel and insights
on 'etsah, the complete picture that God is presenting.
The first person to frame the entire portrait that God has provided
and then provide comprehensive counsel on it.
It is 'ets to 'etsah.
Well,
'Adam to 'Adamah does not turn it into a girly shade of red
or does not make the man a woman.
Well, 'Adam is man, 'Adamah is not woman.
Okay,
it adds nuances to the man that is being discussed
and it makes him a bloody red man of the earth.
Okay,
so this is God’s way of communicating that par does mean bull.
And while Parah, that A-H ending,
which is just the hey at the end of the word,
what it does is expands our understanding of that bull.
And it says that the bull is Parah, which means productive and fruitful.
Now for a bull to be productive and fruitful,
the bull has many children, offspring.
And that bull is part of a harvest that is obviously productive and fruitful.
And indeed,
that is the role of the 'Adam of Parah.
That is the key player in God’s story
because ultimately God has three men who are symbolized by three animals.
Dowd is the ram and also the Lamb of God.
I am the bull and depicted also as the 'adamah Parah
and 'Elia who is returning is the goat.
And each of them have their specific characteristics.
My wife, Leah, presented a song,
a video set to music and lyrics that explain the nature of a bull
and why that symbol suited the restoring witness of the last days
that Yahowah has selected to be this bloody red man of the earth
who would be productive and who would fulfill Taruwah
purging the remnant of Israel so that they could witness Dowd’s arrival with Yahowah
and enter the Gan 'Eden, this sheltered garden for a thousand years
during the celebration of Sukkah.
There are characteristics
that are common among bulls that cause God to say
that is a good symbol.
People should be able to pursue,
be able to understand and process the nature of this man
such that you understand his characteristics at this time.
A man who is bullish is obviously very positive.
We call it a bull market.
That would be a positive market.
A bullish is aggressive in protecting his own,
particularly in protecting women.
A bull cannot be a coward.
A bull is aggressive.
It is forceful.
Bulls have interesting characteristics,
and there is a whole presentation that Leah has created
on my Facebook page, should you be interested in learning about them.
So this is the nature of the bull,
and that is the 'Adamah Parah that Yahowah has been sacrificed
during the celebration of Taruwah.
on the twenty-fourth of September of 2033 year 6000 Yah.
Yeah.
And it fulfills the prophecy of Numbers nineteen
pursuant to the adulterous woman of Numbers five
so that we can reenter Sukkah and the Garden at that time.
So these are the characters in God’s story
and what He is achieving with them.
And it is a delight to pursue them.
And we will return to this spot.
I think we will do another program on the same series
here later this afternoon.
The back held up pretty well.
You did not see me wince a single time.
So I think we are off and able to do another one this afternoon.
So I thank you for listening.
I know I got into a lot of
questions.
really finite detail,
but I think it is by exploring the details
that we come to know and understand and
we become what God is looking for,
interesting people that are worthy of His attention
over an eternity of time.
So thank you for listening.
NOTE: Cleaned and proofread on 2025-12-08
=== CLEANED FILE 1: Mother Goddess Episode Four 02 December 2025_cleaned.vtt ===
WEBVTT
(above is the full cleaned content for the first file – the only file provided)
NOTE: Cleaned and proofread on 2025-12-08